Jim Wendler's 5/3/1

One mesocycle lasts 16 workouts, or a little over 5 weeks.

Each mesocycle has 4 microcycles or "waves".
Wave 1. Warmup, 75%x5, 80%x5, 85%x5
Wave 2. Warmup, 80%x3, 85%x3, 90%x3
Wave 3. Warmup, 75%x5, 85%x3, 95%x1
Wave 4. (deload) - 60%x5, 65%x5, 70%x5

Note: Wendler suggests that you underestimate your loading percentages by subtracting 10% from your 1RM when calculating weights; He also suggests that on the last set you can do an "all out rep max" lifting that weight as many times as possible. The goal is to get at least the specified number of reps with that weight and anything beyond that can be considered the dividends that your efforts have payed out. Only attempt extra reps on the final heavy set.

Each wave has 4 workouts:
A. Squat + assistance
B. Bench press + assistance
C. Deadlift + assistance
D. Military press + assistance

Wendler recommends 3 workouts per week. Example:
Week 1: A1, B1, C1
Week 2: D1, A2, B2
Week 3: C2, D2, A3
Week 4: B3, C3, D3
Week 5: A4, B4, C4
Week 6: D4, etc. ...

Optionally there is a second, less intensive, loading parameter:
Wave 1. Warmup, 65%x5, 75%x5, 85%x5
Wave 2. Warmup, 70%x3, 80%x3, 90%x3
Wave 3. Warmup, 75%x5, 85%x3, 95%x1
Wave 4 (Deload) - 60%x5, 65%x5, 70%x5

Substitutions

The main lifts can be substituted with variations (typically in subsequent mesocycles):
Squat - box squat, squat with bands, front squat, etc.
Bench press - board press, floor press, incline, etc.
Deadlift - rack pulls, deficit DL, etc.
Military press - push press, incline press, etc.

Assistance Work

Assistance work depends on your goals:
Base - just do the main lifts
Strength - just do 1-2 supplementary lifts, typically 3-5 sets x 6-20 reps
Bodybuilder - 3-4 supplementary lifts, including some isolation work, done for higher volume, typically 3-4 sets x 10-20 reps

Here is the "Strength" template assistance work from the book:

Squat Day

Squat: 5x10x50%
Lug Curls: 5x10

Bench Press Day

Bench Press: 5x10x50%
DB Rows: 5x10

Deadlift Day

Deadlift: 5x8x50%
Hanging Leg Raises: 5x12

Mil. Press Day

Mil. Press: 5x10x50%
Chins: 5 sets to failure.

Here is the bodybuilder template assistance work from the book:

Squat Day

Hack Squat: 4 sets of 10-20 reps
Leg Extensions: 4 sets of 10-30 reps
Leg Curls: 4 sets of 10-15 reps
Weighted Sit-ups: 4 sets of 10 reps

or

Leg Press – 4 sets of 10-20 reps
Leg Extensions – 4 sets of 10-30 reps
Leg Curls – 4 sets of 10-15 reps
Weighted Sit-ups – 4 sets of 10 reps

Bench Press Day

DB Bench Press: 4 sets of 10-20 reps
Dips (weighted): 4 sets of 8-15 reps
Fly's: 4 sets of 12 reps
Triceps Pushdowns: 4 sets of 10-20 reps

or

DB Incline Press – 4 sets of 10-20 reps
Dips (weighted) – 4 sets of 8-15 reps
Fly's – 4 sets of 12 reps
Triceps Extensions – 4 sets of 10-20 reps

Deadlift Day

Chins: 4 sets of 10-12 reps
DB Rows: 4 sets of 15 reps/arm
Back Raises: 4 sets of 10 reps (with bar behind neck)
Hanging Leg Raises: 4 sets of 15 reps

or

Lat Pulls – 4 sets of 10-12 reps
Bent Over Rows – 4 sets of 15 reps/arm
Reverse Hyperextensions – 4 sets of 12 reps
Hanging Leg Raises – 4 sets of 15 reps

Military Press Day

DB Military Press: 4 sets of 10 reps
Upright Rows: 4 sets of 10 reps
Side Laterals: 4 sets of 10-15 reps
Barbell Curls: 4 sets of 10 reps

or

Hammer Machine Military – 4 sets of 10 reps
Rope Upright Rows – 4 sets of 10 reps
Rear Laterals – 4 sets of 10-15 reps
DB Curls – 4 sets of 10 reps


These are just suggestions, what you do will depend on your own judgement, goals, experience, work capacity, training style, etc.

Links

Training Three Days a Week by Jim Wendler
http://www.flexcart.com/members/elit...d=134&pid=2786

Jim Wendler's 5/3/1 Logbook Calculator
http://www.scribd.com/doc/8615840/Ji...ook-Calculator